=head1 OVERVIEW

Alien::Gnuplot is intended for distribution via CPAN.  This repository
stores the history for the Alien::Gnuplot module on CPAN. Install the
module via CPAN.

=cut
=head1 NAME

Alien::Gnuplot - Find and verify functionality of the gnuplot executable.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 package MyGnuplotter;

 use strict;

 use Alien::Gnuplot;

 $gnuplot = $Alien::Gnuplot::executable;

 `$gnuplot < /tmp/plotfile`;

 1;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Alien::Gnuplot verifies existence and sanity of the gnuplot external
application.  It only declares one access method,
C<Alien::Gnuplot::load_gnuplot>, which does the actual work and is
called automatically at load time.  Alien::Gnuplot doesn't have any
actual plotting methods - making use of gnuplot, once it is found and
verified, is up to you or your client module.

Using Alien::Gnuplot checks for existence of the executable, and sets
several global variables:

=over 3

=item * C<$Alien::Gnuplot::executable> gets the path to the executable that was found.

=item * C<$Alien::Gnuplot::version> gets the self-reported version number of the executable.

=item * C<$Alien::Gnuplot::pl> gets the self-reported patch level.

=item * C<@Alien::Gnuplot::terms> gets a list of the names of all supported terminal devices

=item * C<%Alien::Gnuplot::terms> gets a key for each supported terminal device; values are the 1-line description from gnuplot.

=item * C<@Alien::Gnuplot::colors> gets a list of the names of all named colors recognized by this gnuplot.

=item * C<%Alien::Gnuplot::colors> gets a key for each named color; values are the C<#RRGGBB> form of the color.

=back

You can point Alien::Gnuplot to a particular path for gnuplot, by
setting the environment variable GNUPLOT_BINARY to the path.

If there is no executable application in your path or in the location
pointed to by GNUPLOT_BINARY, then the module throws an exception.
You can also verify that it has not completed successfully, by
examining $Alien::Gnuplot::version, which is undefined in case of
failure and contains the gnuplot version string on success.

If you think the global state of the gnuplot executable may have
changed, you can either reload the module or explicitly call
C<Alien::Gnuplot::load_gnuplot()> to force a fresh inspection of
the executable.

=head1 INSTALLATION STRATEGY

When you install Alien::Gnuplot, it checks that gnuplot itself is
installed as well.  If it is not, then Alien::Gnuplot attempts to 
use one of several common package managers to install gnuplot for you.
If it can't find one of those, if dies (and refuses to install), printing
a friendly message about how to get gnuplot before throwing an error.

In principle, gnuplot could be automagically downloaded and built, 
but it is distributed via Sourceforge -- which obfuscates interior
links, making such tools surprisingly difficult to write.

=head1 REPOSITORIES

Alien::Gnuplot development is at "http://github.com/drzowie/Alien-Gnuplot".

Gnuplot's main home page is at "http://www.gnuplot.info", and the source code
tarball in src is downloaded from there.

=head1 AUTHOR

Craig DeForest <craig@deforest.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2013 by Craig DeForest

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
